# Aesthetics_BibliometricData
Data used in "What counts as Aesthetics in Science? A Bibliometric Analysis and Visualization of the Scientific Literature from 1970 to 2018".

https://zenodo.org/badge/224454617.svg

## Data for analysis 1: Aeshteitcs as a whole
In this first analysis, we searched all available literature in Web of Science containing the keywords aesthetics or esthetics in either the title, the abstract, or author keywords. We limited the search to only peer-reviewed publications (research articles, reviews, or conference papers), excluding book chapters, editorial notes, and letters. We also excluded literature published in 2019 (the year in which the study was conducted). When available, the data for each publication includes the document’s title, abstract, keywords, author(s), year of publication, journal (with volume, issue, and pages), citation count, document type, DOI, author affiliations, serial identifiers, publisher, editor, language of original document, and correspondence address. The data was retrieved on July 18, 2019. The same dataset was retrieved in "bib" and "text" formats.

## Data for analysis 2: Differences between academic research areas
In the second analysis, we compared publications as they organized into different research areas. We used the five research categories provided by Web of Science : Arts & Humanities, Life Sciences & Biomedicine, Physical Sciences, Social Sciences, and Technology. We conducted five separate database searches to download the literature belonging to each of these five areas. In addition, we conducted a search to download all literature classified in the categories psychology and neuroscience from WoS. The analysis strategy in the six searches was the same as employed in the first analsyis, i.e., searching for all available literature containing the keywords aesthetics or esthetics in either the title, the abstract, or the author keywords. Again, publications from 2019 were excluded, and only peer-reviewed publications were included, namely, research articles, reviews, or conference papers. The data was retrieved on September 12, 2019. The same dataset for each of the six research areas was retrieved in "bib" and "text" formats.
